docs/theme-dev/cinder-docs.md, before:

---
description: Cinder modification documentation
---

# Documentation for Cinder changes
Cinder is the theme you are currently seeing. As other themes for mkdocs, it does have its own [documentation](https://sourcefoundry.org/cinder/). However we intend to modify this theme and therefore the changes will be documented here.

## Favicon
In order to use custom favicon use following mkdocs config file entry:
```
theme: 
    favicon: path/to/icon
```
If no favicon is specified in config file, default icon located under `cinder/img/favicon.ico` will be used instead. It is also possible to substitute this file to achieve the same goal. 

## Nav title section
Nav title section is the section that shows logo and title of the page on header. There are few customization options regarding this seciton we have implemented.

### Logo
In order to use custom logo on navigation bar use following mkdocs config file entry:

```
theme: 
logo: path/to/logo
```
If no logo is specified in config file, only [site title](#site-title) will be shown.

### Site title
This is text that will show up next to the logo. It is possible (and advised) to use custom title for this element. This is because this element should be descriptive and tell the user what the pages are about. Therefore it is possible to customize this text by `site_title` attribute in mkdocs config file.

Specifing custom title:
```
theme:
site_title: Documentation for my precious project.
```

If no site_title is specified in config file, site_name attribute will be used instead.

## Repo links 
Repo links has been changed, now link to repo is separate from edit links. Before, edit links has been overwritten by link to repo if they were specified. Now it is possible to have both, link to repo and edit link

### Repo link
Links to repo will show up on navigation bar. Appropriate icon is choosen based on keyword in repo url. This means that if `repo_url` in `mkdocs.yml` contains `'github'`, then github icon will be shown beside. Currently only `'github'`, `'bitbucket'` and `'gitlab'` keywords are supported. If `repo_url` does not contain any of these keywords, then no icon will be shown.

Link text is determined by `repo_name` attribute in `mkdocs.yml`. If this attribute is not specified, then default keyword will be shown i.e 'GitHub'.

### Edit link
Edit link will be shown on top of content and it is controlled by `edit_uri` in `mkdocs.yml` (More about how it works, refer to mkDocs documentation). This link text is agnostic to repo provider, which means that it will stay the same regardles if edit link is refering to Github, Gitlab etc.  




## HTML lang attribute 
It is possbile to specify the html lang attribute (that defnies the content language) in mkdocs config file. This is done by following entry:
```
theme: 
    locale: fr //set the language to french
```
!!! note
    This functionality is implemented according to mkdocs guide. More info about mkdocs locales refer to its [documentation](https://www.mkdocs.org/dev-guide/themes/#supporting-theme-localizationtranslation)

Commit message:

sticky sidebars, cinder cleanup
sticky sidebars added as test and cinder (mostly css) has been cleaned

docs/theme-dev/cinder-docs.md, after:

---
description: Cinder modification documentation
---

# Modified cinder documentation
The theme you are currently seeing is modified version of [Cinder theme](https://sourcefoundry.org/cinder/) for MkDocs. Because it is modified, the orginal documentation is not fully relevant. Therefore any changes that needs to be documented, will be published here.

!!! warning
    Changes to this theme was not tested extensively, therefore there is possiblity that functionalites described here will not behave as expected.

## Favicon
In order to use custom favicon use following `mkdocs.yml` file entry:
```
theme: 
    favicon: path/to/icon
```
If no favicon is specified in config file, default icon located under `cinder/img/favicon.ico` will be used instead. It is also possible to substitute this file to achieve the same goal. 

## Nav title section
Nav title section is the section that shows logo and title of the page on header. There are few customization options regarding this seciton we have implemented.

### Logo
In order to use custom logo on navigation bar use following `mkdocs.yml` file entry:

```
theme: 
    logo: path/to/logo
```
If no logo is specified in config file, only [site title](#site-title) will be shown.

### Site title
This is text that will show up next to the logo. It is possible (and advised) to use custom title for this element. This is because this element should be descriptive and tell the user what the pages are about. Therefore it is possible to customize this text by `site_title` attribute in mkdocs config file.

Specifing custom title:
```
theme:
    site_title: Documentation for my precious project.
```

If no `site_title` is specified in config file, `site_name` attribute will be used instead.

## Repo links 
Repo links has been changed, now link to repo is separate from edit links. Before, edit links has been overwritten by link to repo if they were specified. Now it is possible to have both, link to repo and edit link

### Repo link
Links to repo will show up on navigation bar. Appropriate icon is choosen based on keyword in repo url. This means that if `repo_url` in `mkdocs.yml` file contains `'github'`, then github icon will be shown beside. Currently only `'github'`, `'bitbucket'` and `'gitlab'` keywords are supported. If `repo_url` does not contain any of these keywords, then no icon will be shown.

Link text is determined by `repo_name` attribute in `mkdocs.yml`. If this attribute is not specified, then default keyword will be shown i.e 'GitHub'.

### Edit link
Edit link will be shown on top of content and it is controlled by `edit_uri` in `mkdocs.yml` (More about how it works, refer to mkDocs documentation). This link text is agnostic to repo provider, which means that it will stay the same regardles if edit link is refering to Github, Gitlab etc.  

## HTML lang attribute 
It is possbile to specify the html lang attribute (that defnies the content language) in `mkdocs.yml` file. This is done by following entry:
```
theme: 
    locale: fr //set the language to french
```
!!! note
    This functionality is implemented according to mkdocs guide. More info about mkdocs locales refer to its [documentation](https://www.mkdocs.org/dev-guide/themes/#supporting-theme-localizationtranslation)

## Position Sticky
Header and aside sections uses `position: sticky;` css rule to keep them attached in place. This rule however is not fully supported on all browser, therefore they will most likely scroll with the page content (this has not been tested). Such solution is best compromise between functionality and clean code.
